

www.INDIANEXPRESS.COM UNDAY EXPRESS, APRIL 28, 2024
Fifth COLUMN
TAVLEEN SINGH Twitter @tavleen singh
ty in laces
f
S
1
1
Robin Hood economics
JUST BEFORE sitting down to write this piece, I spotted Rahul Gandhi's latest campaign video on social media. The video began with a poster of Gautam Adani's face on which the word 'BAN' was written. After this Rahul appeared and declared in an angry voice that he prom- ised to give farmers, workers, and the poor as much money as 'Modi has given Adani'. This is only one of many campaign videos in which the inheritor of the Nehru-Gandhi legacy speaks of how when a Congress government comes to power, it will take money from the rich and distribute it to the poor.
It is time to remind the man who seeks to unseat Modi in this general election that it is not his personal wealth that he is threatening to hand out. It is taxpayers' money. It is not just the money of men like Adani and Ambani, but money given in taxes by all of us who pay taxes. What I find disturbing about Rahul's rants against rich Indians is his unconcealed contempt for those who create wealth. The private sector has survived and thrived despite socialist policies like the license raj, de- spite debilitating taxation. It deserves to be respected and not disdained. The wealth that is owned by men like Adani has not been 'given' to them by Modi or any other politician. It is wealth that they have created for the country, some of which is already being paid to the govern- ment in taxes. Why is this so hard for Rahul Gandhi to understand?
The Congress Party has repeatedly in- dicated that if it comes to power it has plans to introduce crippling new taxes on rich people. Sam Pitroda, famous for dam- aging the Congress Party's 'secularism' in the last general election, damaged its eco- nomic philosophy last week by announc- ing that it was time to bring back an in- heritance tax. Congress spokesmen quickly distanced the party from Pitroda's statement, but redistribution of wealth Robin Hood style is something that Rahul Gandhi has talked about often since the campaign for this election began.
It is time for him to be reminded of what India looked like when taxes on the rich were so insane in his Granny's time that businessmen were ordered to pay 97% of their earnings as tax. The result was that not only was the private sector nearly de- stroyed but government itself had no money to distribute to the poor. It was a general redistribution of poverty that re- sulted. India has taken decades to recover and to prosper enough for a middle class to emerge and for a hesitant celebration of prosperity to begin. In the past ten years it is to Modi's credit that he has continued with economic policies that encourage the creation of wealth. In the opinion of those who would like to see the Indian economy really soar, he has not done enough to end socialism. He needs to do much more to totally rid us of an economic ideology that kept India mired in poverty.
Robin Hood Rahul also announced last week that he was so committed to order- ing a caste census that he has made it his life's mission. There can be compromises in politics, he said, but no compromises when you make something your life': mission. He has clarified more than once that the purpose of this census is to en able the redistribution of wealth. So castes that fall into the poorest categor will be the first to benefit. This is revers casteism at a time when the divisions caste in urban India have blurred. In vi
lages higher caste bigots may choose n to eat at the same table as those they com sider lower than them, but this is not po sible in a city restaurant.
Instead of coming up with retrogra
S economic ideas it would be better for t Congress Party's 'thinkers' to exami
0